# Bylaws of the Seattle Quake Rugby Football Club, Inc.

A Non-Profit Washington Corporation - FEI # 47-0874427

## Article I
### Corporate Structure, Name, and Offices.
1. **Incorporation.** The Corporation shall be registered as a Non-Profit Corporation in the State of Washington under Chapter 24.03 RCW, “Washington Nonprofit Corporation Act,” and shall be subject to the law as set forth therein. The Articles of Incorporation shall be filed with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Washington.
2. **Conduct of the Corporation’s Affairs.** The Corporation shall be directed and governed and shall operate as specified by these Bylaws, and by the laws of the State of Washington.
3. **Name.** The name of the Corporation as registered with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Washington shall be “Seattle Quake Rugby Football Club.” The Corporation may be referred to in these Bylaws and in other corporate documents as “Seattle Quake RFC,” “Seattle Quake,” “Quake RFC,” or other such appropriately identifiable name.
4. **Principal Location.** The principal offices of the Corporation are and shall be maintained in the State of Washington.
5. **Office Address.** The address of the Corporation’s offices shall be determined by the Board of Directors, but shall not be located outside the State of Washington. Any change of the address of the Corporation’s offices shall be filed with the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Washington, as required by law.

## Article II
### Corporate Mission and Goals
1. **Mission of the Corporation.** The Seattle Quake Rugby Football Club is a non-profit corporation and a gay organization that actively seeks out traditionally under-represented members in the community and encourages them to explore the sport of Rugby Union in a non-threatening and empowering environment.  As such the Seattle Quake maintains a development rugby program that fosters a love for the sport of rugby regardless of athletic ability.  Through positive competitive engagement in our surrounding communities, we hope to directly challenge stereotypes and bigotry in what has historically been the uncommon ground of rugby.  Further, we actively participate and are in solidarity with other organizations that share our common goals of mutual understanding and respect for all members of the community.

## Article III
### Membership in Seattle Quake RFC
1. **Determination of Membership.** The Corporation will have two classes of membership – Player and Supporter. Players must be registered with USA Rugby through CIPP.  Except as expressly provided or authorized by these Bylaws, all memberships shall have the same rights, privileges, restrictions and conditions.
2. **Voting rights of Members.** Each member shall have the right to one vote in business of the Corporation that is put to a vote of the members, including yearly elections of Officers and Directors. No member may hold more than one membership in the Corporation, or exercise more than one vote on any issue.
3. **Dues.** The amount of dues and the frequency of assessment of dues shall be determined on an annual basis by the Board of Directors. 
4. **Application for and Acceptance of Membership.** Upon meeting the following criteria, applicants shall be admitted to membership, and shall be deemed “Members in Good Standing” of the Corporation, and shall remain so, barring default of one of these provisions, death, or action by the Board of Directors rescinding or abridging such status:
  * Agreeing to the terms of a player agreement and liability release form, and indicating such agreement by signing and returning the complete form to the Secretary of the Corporation. 
  * Payment of all or a portion of the annual dues to the Treasurer of the Corporation, as specified by these Bylaws and in accordance with such payment policy as the Board of Directors may create. 
  * Agreeing to the mission, goals, policies, and procedures of the Corporation and indicating such agreement by signing and returning the complete form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
5. **Resignation.** A member may resign from membership at any time upon written notification to the Secretary of the Corporation. Resignation shall not relieve the member from any charges or dues arising from membership, either by contract or otherwise. The Corporation will provide no consideration of any sort or refund of any dues, fees, or contributions made by a member who resigns from the Corporation.
6. **Revocation or Termination of Membership Rights.** 
  * The Board of Directors or the Head Coach and the Club President together, at their sole discretion, rescind, revoke or abridge the membership rights of any member, without consideration of any sort or refund of any dues, fees, or contributions made by that member, for violations including:
    * Violations of any part of the player release form.
    * Violations of any law, policy or procedure of the Corporation.
    * Violations of laws or policies of any union or organization of which the Corporation is a member. 
    * Engaging in conduct materially and seriously prejudicial to the interests, purposes or mission of the Corporation.
    * Delinquency or failure to pay financial obligations to the Corporation.
  * Any membership dues, fees, or other charges will be considered delinquent if not paid within 30 days of their due date. Membership may be reinstated by the Board of Directors upon payment of obligations owed to the Corporation.
  * Except for such cases of delinquency or failure to pay financial obligations to the Corporation, the following procedure shall be followed after an initial finding that a member may be subject to revocation of membership rights. The Board of Directors shall:
    * Send email to the last address of the member as shown on the Corporation's records, setting forth the finding and reasons for termination of membership. Such notice shall be sent at least fifteen (15) calendar days before the proposed effective date of termination.
    * The member may appeal the decision, they will have an opportunity to be heard, either orally or in writing, by a meeting of the Board to be held not less than five (5) days before the effective date of the proposed termination. The notice of proposed expulsion shall state the date, time, and place of such hearing.
    * Decide, within three (3) days of the hearing, whether or not the member should, in fact, be terminated. The Board may also decide to suspend or sanction the member in some other way.
    * The decision of the Board shall be final.
7. **Transfer of Membership.** Membership in the Corporation is not transferable.
8. **Financial Hardship.** Waivers of dues may be granted by the Board at its sole discretion to members, or prospective members, on a case-by-case basis.

## Article IV
### Membership Meetings
1. **Annual Meetings.**
  * The Board of Directors shall call an annual meeting to be held in July of each calendar year.
  * The annual meeting shall be at a time and place to be communicated to the members at least 10 days but not longer than 50 days before the scheduled meeting.
  * The purpose of the annual meeting shall be to elect the officers and directors of the Corporation, and to transact other corporate business as may be appropriate or necessary.
  * The Board of Directors, by a vote of a two-thirds majority, may hold the annual meeting online.  Holding an annual meeting online does not change the requirement to be in attendance to vote.
  * Members may nominate any member in good standing for any Officer or Director position via email to the Corporation's Secretary at least two days prior to the annual meeting.  The Corporation's Secretary shall distribute the list of nominations received to the entire membership prior to the annual meeting.  This does not limit any member's ability to make a nomination for any Officer or Director position during the annual meeting.
2. **Special Meetings.**
  * The Board of Directors or the President of the Corporation may call a meeting of the members for the purposes of conducting specific and necessary corporate business.
  * The Board of Directors shall call a special meeting for the purposes of conducting specific and necessary corporate business upon request by any group of at least twenty-five percent of the members; requests for such meetings must be received by the Board of Directors at least 20 days but not more than 30 days before the desired meeting time.
  * Any special meeting shall be at a time and place to be communicated to the members at least 10 days but not more than 30 days before the scheduled meeting.
3. **Quorum Requirements.**
  * Any meeting of the members must consist of at least fifty percent of the registered members in good standing.
4. **Majority Voting.** 
  * Every action taken or decision made by a majority of voting members attending a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present is considered a binding action or decision, except when the law or these Bylaws state otherwise.
5. **Proxy Voting.**
  * Members must attend a meeting to vote, and proxy votes shall not be accepted.
6. **Voting Eligibility.**
  * Each person who is determined to be a member in good standing is entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to vote by the members. The Secretary, at the time of voting, shall have available a current list of members eligible to vote.
7. **Balloting.**
  * Voting at duly held meetings may be voice vote, written ballot, or an electronic equivalent. Election of Directors and Officers, however, shall be by written ballot or an electronic equivalent.
8. **Conduct of Meetings.**
  * Meetings of members shall be presided over by the President of the Corporation or, in their absence, by a Chair chosen by a majority of the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary of all meetings of members. In the Secretary's absence, the presiding officer shall appoint another person to act as Secretary of the meeting.
  * Meetings shall be governed by the most recent edition of Robert's Rules of Order, subject to the provisions of law and these Bylaws.

## Article V
### Officers and Board of Directors
#### **1. Officers.** The members of the Corporation shall elect, during the annual meeting, the following officers:
  * **President.** The president is the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, supervise and control the affairs of the Corporation and the activities of the Officers and exercise the usual executive powers pertaining to such office. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and at meetings of members; if the President is unable to preside or the presidency is vacant, the Vice President shall preside at all meetings. The President may, in the name of the Corporation, execute financial instruments and contracts that may be necessary for the functioning of the Corporation in accordance with its mission and with these Bylaws. The President shall provide any and all records, documents, or information pertinent to the Corporation which may be in their possession to the Board of Directors, or to a Director of the Corporation, upon request. The President shall perform all duties incident to that office and other duties as may be required by law or by these Bylaws, or which may be prescribed from by the Board of Directors. The President supervises all coaches, contractors, agents and employees of the Corporation to assure that their duties are performed properly.  
  * **Vice President.** The Vice President is the chief operating officer of the Corporation and shall also assume the duties of President in case the president is unable to perform those duties or in the event that the presidency is vacant.  The Vice President shall provide any and all records, documents, or information pertinent to the Corporation which may be in their possession to the Board of Directors, or to a Director of the Corporation, upon request. The Vice President shall perform all duties incident to that office, and other duties as may be required by law or by these Bylaws, or which may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. The Vice President acts as Match Secretary and is responsible for any on pitch activities, including fields, fixtures, equipment, referees and any other match related logistics.
  * **Secretary.** The Secretary shall certify and keep the original, or a copy, of these Bylaws as amended or otherwise altered to date. The secretary shall maintain or cause to be maintained and keep official records of all meetings of the Directors and of the members, recording the time and place of holding, whether regular or special, how called, how notice was given, the names of those present at the meeting, and the proceedings of the meeting. The Secretary shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws or as required by law, and shall be custodian of the records for the Corporation. The Secretary shall maintain or cause to be maintained membership records containing the name and address and other necessary information of all members, and, in the case where a membership has been terminated, shall record such fact in the membership records together with the date on which such membership ceased. The Secretary shall provide any and all records, documents, or information pertinent to the Corporation which may be in their possession to the Board of Directors, or to a Director of the Corporation, upon request. The Secretary shall perform all duties incident to that office, and other duties as may be required by law or by these Bylaws, or which may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. 
  * **Treasurer.** The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of and be responsible for all funds, investments, instruments of credit, and other financial instruments that may be required by the Corporation or prescribed by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall be responsible for collecting and depositing of funds and other valuable effects of the Corporation as directed by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall receive, and give receipt for, monies due and payable to the Corporation, and disburse or cause to be disbursed the funds of the Corporation as may be directed by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, or as required by law. The Treasurer shall keep and maintain adequate and correct accounts of the Corporation's properties and business transactions, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains and losses. The Treasurer shall prepare and certify the financial statements to be included in any required reports or file any necessary corporate financial records, including annual tax returns, as required by law or prescribed by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall provide any and all records, documents, or information pertinent to the Corporation which may be in their possession to the Board of Directors, or to a Director of the Corporation, upon request. The Treasurer shall perform all duties incident to that office, and other duties as may be required by law or by these Bylaws, or which may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer is required to, upon request, provide a balance sheet, account statement and cash flows statement to the Board of Directors, recording financial position of the corporation in the minutes for public view. The Treasurer is required to provide a yearly financial statement to the annual membership, in conjunction with the filing of any corporate financial records. The Treasurer shall report in writing to the members, at the annual meeting, on the state of the Corporation and the financial health of the Corporation, specifically including the assets and liabilities, revenues and expenditures, and an accounting of any transaction or series of transactions (from the same source or to the same payee) that are, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, material to the financial health of the Corporation, or in any case when the transaction or series of transactions totals more than $1,000.00.
2. **Officers as Directors of the Corporation.** The President, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer of the Corporation shall serve as ex officio Directors of the Corporation with full voting rights.
3. **Other Directors.** In addition to the election of Officers, the members of the Corporation shall elect, during the annual meeting, five Directors of the Corporation.
  * **Community Relations Chair.** The Community Relations Chair is responsible for the involvement of the Corporation and its members in community based activities, in conjunction with its mission.  This includes but is not limited to organization of joint events with other non-profits, organization of volunteering at community events and visibility of the Corporation in the communities of which it is a part.  The Community Relations Chair will be advised by the President.
  * **Merchandise Chair.** The Merchandise Chair is responsible for the overall branding and visual representation of the Corporation.  This includes but is not limited to branded equipment and merchandise such as jerseys, clothing, and calendars; and, the sales strategy of such merchandise.  The Marketing and Merchandising Committee Chair will act as project manager and art director for all Quake merchandise. The Merchandising Chair will be advised by the Treasurer. The Marketing merchandising chair will manage a merchandise procurement, sales, and fulfillment.
  * **Membership Chair.** The Membership Chair are responsible for recruitment and retention of the membership. This includes but is not limited to: Rugby 101, recruitment events and publicity of such events, rookie retention classes, buddy programs and other assorted membership related events. The Membership Chair will be advised by the Vice President.
  * **Sponsorship Chair.** The Sponsorship Chair is responsible for the sponsorship and fundraising activities of the Corporation.  This includes but is not limited to organization of fundraisers, sponsor relations, and overall financial development activities outside of membership dues. The Sponsorship and Development Chair will be advised by the Treasurer and the President.
  * **Communications Chair.** The Communications Chair is responsible for the Corporation's communication within the club and with the general public.  This includes but is not limited to emails to the Corporation's membership and managment of the Corporation's social media accounts.
4. **Qualifications and Terms of Officers or Directors.**
  * Any member – Player or Supporter – in good standing may serve as an Officer or Director.
  * The President and Secretary shall be elected in odd-numbered calendar years, beginning on 2019, and shall hold office from 1 August from the year following election for a period of two years, or until resignation or removal, or until otherwise disqualified to serve, whichever comes first.
  * The Vice-President and Treasurer shall be elected in odd-numbered calendar years, beginning in 2018, and shall hold office from 1 August from the year following election for a period of two years, or until resignation or removal, or until otherwise disqualified to serve, whichever comes first.
  * Directors shall be elected each year and shall hold office from 1 August from the year following election for a period of one year, or until resignation or removal, or until otherwise disqualified to serve, whichever comes first.
5. **Board of Directors.** Collectively, the President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, and Directors shall be known as the Board of Directors. Subject to the provisions law and of these Bylaws, all of the activities and affairs of this Corporation shall be conducted and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.
6. **Specific Duties of Board of Directors.** It shall be the specific duty of the Board of Directors to:
  * Consider any business pursuant to the mission of the Corporation that may be brought before the Board. 
  * Define the goals and strategic plan for the Corporation and direct the Corporation towards those ends.
  * Develop and approve a budget, and approve and assess membership dues for the Corporation.
  * Maintain the Corporation’s legal status as a non-profit Corporation under Washington law, performing such actions as may be required under law to do so.
  * Maintain the Corporation’s membership in and relationship with the Pacific Northwest Rugby Football Union (PNRFU).
  * Maintain the Corporation’s membership in and relationship with USA Rugby.
  * Maintain the Corporation’s membership in and relationship with the International Gay Rugby (IGR)
  * Determine whether or not the Corporation will participate in any match, tournament, or other event.
  * Perform any and all duties imposed upon them collectively or individually by law or by these Bylaws.
  * Approval of any proposed expenses to be incurred by the Corporation above $1,000. In the case of large projects, approval of a detailed project budget will serve as the approval for the subordinate expenses to be incurred.
7. **Other Appointees.** The Board of Directors may create such other subordinate officers, employees, agents and contractors as it may deem desirable and necessary, subject to the following:
  * Any subordinate officer, employee, agent, or contractor may be installed by resolution of the Board. Examples include, but are not limited to,
    * Representatives to outside organizations such as IGR, USA Rugby and PNRFU.
    * Field Officers
    * Coaching Staff
    * Event subcontracting companies 
  * Each subordinate officer, employee, agent, or contractor shall serve such term, have such authority, and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
  * The creation or installation of a subordinate officer position will not require and shall not cause an amendment of these Bylaws.
8. **Vacancies or Removal of Officers and Directors.** Vacancies on the Board of Directors shall exist upon the death, resignation, or removal of any Director or Officer. Any Director or Officer may resign effective upon giving written notice to the President, the Secretary, or the Board of Directors, unless the notice specifies a later time for the effectiveness of such resignation. An Officer or Director may be removed from office for repeated failure to
attend meetings or other events, or whenever the interests of the Corporation may be best served by doing so. An Officer or Director may be removed by a vote of a two-thirds majority of Directors not being considered for removal, or by a vote of two-thirds majority of the members eligible to vote.
9. **Replacement of Vacancies on the Board of Directors.** In the event of a vacancy on the Board of Directors, the remaining Directors shall endeavor to fill the office as soon as possible, subject to the following:
  * In the event of the vacancy of a position on the Board of Directors other than the President the Board of Directors shall call upon the members to recommend a nominee for the vacant position. From the nominees submitted, the remaining Directors shall appoint, by a two-thirds majority, a replacement to serve as a Director for the remainder of the vacated term.
  * In the event of the vacancy of the office of President, the Vice President shall assume the duties of the President, and the Board of Directors shall call upon the members to recommend a nominee for the position of Vice President. From the nominees submitted, the remaining Directors shall appoint, by a two-thirds majority, a replacement Vice President for the remainder of that term of office.
10. **Compensation.** Officers shall serve without compensation.
11. **Meetings.** Meetings shall be held at a mutually agreed time and location, or may be held by telephone conference or similar communication equipment, so long as all Directors participating in such meeting can readily communicate with all of the others. Regular meetings of the Board shall occur at least once per quarter. A quorum shall be required to conduct business at a Board meeting, and shall consist of at least five members of the Board of Directors.
12. **Conduct of Board Meetings.** Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the President or, in the President's absence, by the Vice President. In the absence of both the President and Vice President, the meeting shall be presided over by a Chair chosen by a majority of the Directors present at the meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary of all meetings of the Board, provided that in the Secretary's absence, the presiding officer shall appoint another person to act as Secretary of the Meeting.
13. **Majority Action as Board Action.** Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the Directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present is the act of the Board of Directors, unless the law or these Bylaws require otherwise.
14. **Action Taken Without Meeting.** Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors under any provision of the law or these Bylaws may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board shall individually provide their vote in writing to such action. Such written consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board. Such action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as any vote of the Directors. Any certificate or other document filed under any provision of law which relates to action so taken shall state that the action was taken by the majority written consent of the Board of Directors without a meeting and that the Bylaws of this Corporation authorize the directors to act.
15. **Non-liability of Directors and Officers.** The Directors and Officers shall not, by virtue of their offices, be personally liable for the debts, liabilities, or other obligations of the Corporation, or for any actions or non-actions of any member, other Officer or Director, subordinate officer, employee, agent, contractor, assign, or volunteer.
16. **Directors in Other Positions.** Directors may serve the Corporation in other positions, including but not limited to field officers, committee chairs, or designees or representatives of the Corporation to other organizations, subject to the law, these Bylaws, and the actions of the Board of Directors, but a Director or Officer shall not occupy two seats on the board simultaneously.

## Article VI
### Other Administrative and Financial Provisions
1. **Fiscal Year.** The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be 1 January through 31 December of each calendar year.
2. **Amendment of These Bylaws.** These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed by a vote of two-thirds majority of the members eligible to vote, or by a vote of two-thirds majority of the Board of Directors.
3. **Use of Electronic Mail and Facsimile Transmission.** Except when prohibited by law, the provisions of these Bylaws that require written record or notice shall include and not limit the use of electronic mail or facsimile transmission.
